{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red29\green29\blue29;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green97\blue146;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14902\c14902\c14902;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c12549\c45882\c63922;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs21 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 1.A summary includes the author and title of the material you are summarizing. Record these details below
\fs28 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf2 Author of article: \ul Gandhi, L.\'a0
\fs28 \ulnone \

\fs21 Title of article: \ul A History of Snake Oil Salesmen
\fs28 \ulnone \

\fs21 Source: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.npr.org/sections/codeswitch/2013/08/26/215761377/a-history-of-snake-oil-salesmen-oil-salesmen"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://www.npr.org/sections/codeswitch/2013/08/26/215761377/a-history-of-snake-oil-salesmen-oil-salesmen}}\ul .
\fs28 \ulnone \

\fs21 Date of publication: \ul 2013, August 26
\fs28 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 2. What is the author\'92s main purpose in this article? How do you know? (Hint: In addition to looking at the article itself, consider the source.)
\fs28 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf2 The author's main purpose in writing this article is to illustrate how easy fraud may deceive individuals due to their lack of understanding about the issue. This is proven when ruthless profiteers such as Clark Stanley took advantage of an uninformed population by offering fraudulent remedies for his own benefit.\'a0
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 3. Highlight the main idea of each paragraph. Note where the writer has provided details to support the main ideas. (Hint: look for examples, anecdotes, descriptive details.
\fs28 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf2 The main idea of the first major paragraph aims to demonstrate to the reader how readily fraud may mislead the audience and how profiteers exploited this situation.
\fs28 \

\fs21 The second major paragraph highlights how snake oil had a detrimental influence on society and is now used to define someone who sells, promotes, or is a general supporter of false treatment.
\fs28 \

\fs21 The third major paragraph discusses the history of Chinese migration to the United States, as well as the snake oil treatment introduced to Americans and how they sought to produce their own variants.
\fs28 \

\fs21 The fourth major paragraph introduced Clark Stanley as a known perpetrator who easily scammed Americans due to snake oil being a new subject and their lack of expertise.
\fs28 \

\fs21 The fifth major paragraph explains why the American version, which uses rattlesnake, is three times less effective than Chinese snake oil. Clark Stanley's exposure as a scammer, and how the term "snake oil salesman" came to be.
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 4.Considering the author\'92s purpose, write down five to seven of the most important ideas. Use point form.
\fs28 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa75\partightenfactor0

\fs21 \cf2 Snake oil left a negative impact on society, and the phrase "Snake Oil Salesman" emerged and is still used today. This was seen when politicians such as President Obama called the Romney-Ryan tax proposal "trickle-down snake oil" at a rally.
\fs28 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs21 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The whole situation began when the Chinese introduced snake oil as a treatment to the Americans.\'a0According to historian Richard White's book Railroaded, about 180,000 Chinese immigrated to the United States between 1849 and 1882. The vast majority of the workers came from peasant families in southeastern China to work on the Transcontinental Railroad.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Clark Stanley took advantage of an uninformed population by offering fraudulent remedies for his own benefit due to snake oil being a new subject and their lack of expertise.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Compared to the authentic Chinese snake oil that rattlesnake oil was meant to imitate, it was much less effective. According to a 1989 letter published in The Western Journal of Medicine by psychiatrist and researcher Richard Kunin, Chinese oil contained nearly triple the level of a crucial acid than rattlesnake oil.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Clark Stanley was exposed as a fraudster after federal inspectors discovered mineral oil, a fatty oil thought to be beef fat, red pepper, and turpentine after intercepting a shipment of Stanley's Snake Oil in 1917.\cb1 \
}